---
date: 2025-03-18
---

# The curious case of dark mode syntax highlighting

So I finally hacked in some dark mode support, only to run into another odd quirk: the syntax blocks wouldn’t change.

What gives? The [various](https://nuxt.com/) [Nuxt](https://ui.nuxt.com/) [module](https://color-mode.nuxtjs.org) [websites](https://content.nuxt.com/) all have code examples that all switch beautifully to a dark theme when the system is in dark mode or the user switches to dark mode through a selector in the header, yet on my lil’ webpage things were broken.

## How color modes are handled in Nuxt

The dark mode selector on the nuxt module websites are powered by [`@nuxtjs/color-mode`](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/color-mode). This relatively lightweight module effectively just keeps a `class` on the `html` element in sync the users device preference and offers a composable so you can change it in runtime. This allows you to do things like:

```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
const colorMode = useColorMode();
</script>

<template>
	<div>
		<h1>Color mode: {{ $colorMode.value }}</h1>

		<select v-model="$colorMode.preference">
			<option value="system">System</option>
			<option value="light">Light</option>
			<option value="dark">Dark</option>
		</select>
	</div>
</template>
```

According to the docs, `@nuxt/content`’s syntax highlighting is natively compatible with this library. However.. this didn’t seem to be the case on my end.

## Default values and when to ignore them

After no more than 15 minutes of reverse engineering, I realized all the previously mentioned Nuxt module websites have two things in common: they all use `.dark` on the `html` element rather than `@nuxtjs/color-mode`’s default `.dark-mode`, and they all use `@nuxt/ui`. Turns out `@nuxt/content` relies on the html class being called `.dark` to influence shiki’s theme. `@nuxtjs/color-mode` has an option `classSuffix` which is set to `"-mode"` by default, which in turn breaks the syntax highlighting from working properly.

## So what’s the fix

Easiest workaround is to just set `classSuffix` back to `""` in your `nuxt.config.ts`:

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
	// ...
	colorMode: { classSuffix: "" },
});
```

This in turn makes the html class `.dark`, which makes it work with `@nuxt/content`’s usage of `shiki`.

## Brief note on Nuxt UI

When you use Nuxt UI, it’s `colorMode` option allows you to opt-in to having `@nuxtjs/color-mode` available without having to install it as a separate module. This makes sense as `@nuxt/ui`’s pro version itself has some components included that rely on color mode being present, like [`ColorModeAvatar`](https://ui.nuxt.com/components/color-mode-avatar) and [`ColorModeSwitch`](https://ui.nuxt.com/components/color-mode-switch). However, when you opt-in to `colorMode` through `@nuxt/ui`, it actually overrides `classSuffix` back to `""` on your behalf! This is why the Nuxt module websites and any other projects that use `@nuxt/ui` all work without a problem out of the box.
